Doc reorg: Develop A Project (#2159)
SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI: docs/dev.rst

When you are ready to start making changes that you want to capture in an org, start by creating a snapshot.
This tells the Salesforce CLI source tracking to set the org's current state as a baseline for changes to be made against.

.. note::

    If you have just set up a scratch org by running the ``dev_org``, ``dev_org_namespaced``,
    ``qa_org``, ``regression_org``, ``install_beta`` or ``install_prod`` flows, you do not need to run ``snapshot_changes``.
    These flows all run ``snapshot_changes`` as their last step.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run snapshot_changes --org dev

This will allow the ``list_changes`` and ``retrieve_changes`` tasks to detect any new metadata but ignore any prior changes.
A number of the standard CumulusCI flows, include the ``snapshot_changes`` as the final step.

Check that the snapshot was created successfully:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run list_changes --org dev

This should list no changes to the org.

List Changes
------------
You can check what components you have changed in a target org with the ``list_changes`` command:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run list_changes --org dev

.. note::
    

>     This functionality relies on Salesforce's source tracking feature, so it is only available in scratch orgs.

Reviewer: and developer sandboxes, as a beta: https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_sandboxes_source_tracking.htm

You can also include/exclude components from the list using the include/exclude options:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run list_changes --org dev --include "test.*,another_regex" --exclude "something_to_exclude"

The ``include`` and ``exclude`` patterns are matched against both the metadata type and name of the component.

You can also include all changed components of specific types:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run list_changes --org dev --types "CustomObject,CustomField"

Retrieve Changes
----------------

> The ``retrieve_changes`` task supports both ``sfdx`` and ``mdapi`` formatted source code. 

Reviewer: Have we explained the difference between these earlier in the docs? I'm inclined to leave this line out; it's only important info if it were only supported by one of the formats.

Author: This is currently listed as a header under the "CumulusCI in Depth" section which hasn't been written (although we have the existing material from the current docs).

It also utilizes the `SourceMember <https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api_tooling.meta/api_tooling/tooling_api_objects_sourcemember.htm>`_ sObject to detect what has changed in an org,

> but allows you to be more selective regarding which components to retrieve when compared to the ``dx_pull`` task. 

Reviewer: These lines look like they are comparing to a section about dx_pull that you removed?

Author: This was just a poorly worded. I was trying to draw a distinction between ``retrieve_changes`` and ``dx_pull`` where the former allows you to be selective with regards to what components can be retrieved, and the latter does not.

Manual tracking of component versions also allows for the possibility of retrieving some changes into one directory,
and then running the task again to retrieve other changes into a different directory.
 
.. note::

    CumulusCI has multiple tasks for retrieving Metadata from an org environment.

>     For a comprehensive list, see the list of :ref:`retrieve changes` tasks in the cheat sheet.

Reviewer: I don't think the cheat sheet is a good place for a comprehensive list of anything. I would list them briefly here: In addition to retrieve_changes, CumulusCI provides some other tasks for use in specific scenarios: retrieve_packaged to retrieve an entire unmanaged package, etc... and link each task name to its entry in the task reference.

When you are ready to capture changes in an org, run the ``retrieve_changes`` task:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run retrieve_changes --org dev

The task accepts ``include``, ``exclude``, and ``types`` options for filtering the

> list of changed components, for scenarios where you don't want to retrieve all changed components.

Reviewer: Maybe add: These options filter in the same way as list_changes, so you can use list_changes to confirm what will be retrieved.

After the metadata has been retrieved, the org snapshot will be updated so 
that the retrieved components will no longer be included in ``list_changes``.
You can avoid this by setting the ``snapshot`` option to False.

By default, changes are retrieved into the ``src`` directory when using Metadata source format,
or the default ``sfdx`` package directory (``force-app``) when using ``sfdx`` source format.
You can retrieve into a different location using the ``path`` option:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run retrieve_changes --org dev --path unpackaged/config/qa

Push Changes
------------
Developers rarely edit code directly in an org environment, but instead use an editor or IDE like VSCode or IntelliJ.

> After code (or other Metadata) in an editor you will need to push these changes from your project's local repository to the target org.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After saving code (or other Metadata) in an editor you will need to push these changes from your project's local repository to the target org.
```

If your project uses the ``sfdx`` source format then you can use the ``dx_push`` task:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run dx_push

> If you project uses the Metadata source format you can use the ``deploy`` task:

Reviewer: Let's not recommend using the deploy task on its own. There are things it doesn't do (unscheduling Apex classes so they can be updated, updating package.xml, deleting components that were removed from the source). Instead, we should recommend running the `deploy_unmanaged` flow. This supports both source formats (but dx_push will be more efficient in the case where only one file was changed, because deploy_unmanaged re-deploys the entire package)

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run deploy 

.. note::
   
   The ``deploy`` task has *many* options for handling a number of different scenarios.
   For a complete list see the reference documentation for the `deploy task <TODO>`_.

Run Apex Tests
--------------
CumulusCI allows you to easily execute Apex tests in an org:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run run_tests --org <org_name>

.. note::

    This task has many options for running tests in a variety of ways.
    For more information on options and examples see the reference documentation for `run_tests <TODO>`_.

Set Up a QA Org
---------------
There is flow named ``qa_org`` that is specific to setting up
org environments that allow quality engineers to test features quickly, and easily.
The ``qa_org`` runs the specialized ``config_qa`` task after deploying the projects

> (unmanaged) Metadata to the org.

Reviewer: Again, I'd suggest breaking it down:

The qa_org flow sets up a scratch org to use for testing and QA. It does this in three phases which should look familiar from the dev_org flow:

1. Install dependencies and deploy any unpackaged metadata from the unpackaged/pre folder, using the dependencies flow.
2. Deploy the project's main package as an unmanaged package, using the deploy_unmanaged flow.
3. Perform additional unpackaged configuration steps. Here is where ``qa_org`` can differ from ``dev_org``, because it uses the ``config_qa`` flow for this phase instead of ``config_dev``.

Develop a Project
=================

A general overview on how to develop a Salesforce project with CumulusCI.

Set Up a Dev Org
----------------

> The ``dev_org`` flow creates an org to develop on by moving all metadata (managed and unmanaged) into the org, and configuring it to be ready for development.

Reviewer 2: To confirm: "To develop on" is the correct way to discuss working with orgs?

Author: I think both "on" and "in" are suitable here.

.. note:: Run ``cci flow info dev_org`` for a full list of the ``dev_org`` flow steps.

To run the ``dev_org`` flow against the project's `default org<TODO>`_:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci flow run dev_org

> You can also use the ``--org`` option to explicitly list the org.

Reviewer 2: Would you say: "explicitly list the org to use against the ``dev_org`` flow"? "List the org" sounds incomplete.

Author: You're correct, my wording doesn't make sense here.

    Example: Run the ``dev_org`` flow against the org currently defined as ``dev`` in CumulusCI.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci flow run dev_org --org dev

..

    Open the new ``dev`` org to begin development.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci org browser dev

Set the Capture State
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> To make changes to capture in an org, use the ``snapshot_changes`` task to create a snapshot. A snapshot tells the Salesforce CLI source tracking to set the org's current state as a baseline for changes to be made against.

Reviewer 2: I don’t fully understand what a snapshot is/does. What does a snapshot look like exactly? Should we show an example here?

Author: A snapshot is a "point-in-time" capturing of an org's current state. It is essentially telling the Salesforce CLI, "Hey there, I've gone and mucked with some stuff in this org, but the next time I ask you for all of the changes I've made in this org, please ignore everything before this point in time."

This why most org flows end with the `snapshot_changes` task; so that when a person wants to retrieve the work they've done in this org back into their local github repo, they don't get all of the changes that were made when setting up the org.

Reviewer 2: @Br4nd0R Interesting. And where does one examine a snapshot? CLI? GitHub?

Author: @justinvholt - I'm not positive how the actual snapshot is stored as the snapshots are handled by the Salesforce CLI. (There are commands for listing (sfdx force:org:snapshot:list) snapshots and getting information on (sfdx force:org:snapshot:get) a single snapshot.

There shouldn't be a reason for users to need to "view" a snapshot. This is just a concept that is useful to solidify for developing on salesforce scratch org.

Reviewer: @Br4nd0R The snapshot being referred to in the context of the list_changes/retrieve_changes/snapshot_changes tasks is a completely different thing than the snapshot in the context of the sfdx force:org:snapshot commands. cci's snapshot is just a file storing a list of what the most recent known revision of each component is. sfdx's snapshot is a Pilot feature for creating a scratch org by copying another org.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run snapshot_changes --org dev

.. note:: There's no need to run ``snapshot_changes`` if you've set up a scratch org with any of these flows:

    * ``dev_org``
    * ``dev_org_namespaced``
    * ``qa_org``
    * ``regression_org``
    * ``install_beta``
    * ``install_prod``
    
    These flows all run ``snapshot_changes`` as their last step.

The ``list_changes`` and ``retrieve_changes`` tasks detect new metadata but ignore any prior changes.

> To check that the snapshot was created successfully:

Reviewer 2: So ``list_changes`` will check if a snapshot is created successfully? I ask because I don’t understand how ``list_changes`` bridges to ``snapshot_changes``.

Author: Hopefully my above comment helps. I think we could potentially spell this out a little more for users. If you just created a snapshot then running `cci task run list changes --org dev` should output "Found no changes." I think we could also change this first sentence:
```suggestion
The ``list_changes`` and ``retrieve_changes`` tasks detect new or modified metadata in an org but ignore any changes to metadata made prior to the last snapshot.

To check that the snapshot was created successfully you should see the following output "Found no changes":
```

Reviewer 2: @Br4nd0R Can you send me the full text of what happens after the ``cci task run list_changes --org dev`` is run successfully? I want to put that inside the code block featured under these sentences.

Author: ```
❯ cci task run list_changes --org dev
2021-02-09 12:16:45: Getting org info from Salesforce CLI for test-blwe3dkdxcyr@example.com
2021-02-09 12:16:49: Beginning task: ListChanges
2021-02-09 12:16:49: As user: test-blwe3dkdxcyr@example.com
2021-02-09 12:16:49: In org: 00D1F000000Mrmr
2021-02-09 12:16:49:
2021-02-09 12:16:50: Found no changes.
```

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run list_changes --org dev

List Changes
------------

To see what components have changed in a target org:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run list_changes --org dev

.. note::
    
    This functionality relies on Salesforce's source tracking feature, so it's only available in scratch orgs.

To include/exclude components from the list using the ``--include`` or ``--exclude`` option:

.. code-block:: console

>     $ cci task run list_changes --org dev --include "test.*,another_regex" --exclude "something_to_exclude"

Reviewer 2: Is this correct formatting?

Author: I'm currently reviewing this and going to rewrite this into a few separate examples.

The ``include`` and ``exclude`` patterns are matched against both the metadata type and name of the component.

To include all changed components of specific types:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run list_changes --org dev --types "CustomObject,CustomField"

Retrieve Changes
----------------

The ``retrieve_changes`` task supports both ``sfdx`` and ``mdapi`` formatted source code. It utilizes the `SourceMember <https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api_tooling.meta/api_tooling/tooling_api_objects_sourcemember.htm>`_ sObject to detect what has changed in an org, but also lets you be more selective regarding which components to retrieve when compared to the ``dx_pull`` task.

> 

Reviewer 2: Will most advanced devs know what the dx_pull task is?

Author: We could put a note here, that says something like: "The `dx_pull` task is a wrapper for the `sfdx force:source:pull` command. This command pulls _all_ changed source from the scratch org into your project's repository."

Manual tracking of component versions also offers the possibility of retrieving some changes into one directory, and then running the task again to retrieve other changes into a different directory.
 
To capture changes in an org:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run retrieve_changes --org dev

The task accepts ``include``, ``exclude``, and ``types`` options for filtering the list of changed components, and for scenarios where you don't want to retrieve all changed components.

After the metadata is retrieved, the org snapshot updates so that the retrieved components are no longer included in ``list_changes``. 

> .. tip:: Avoid this by setting the ``snapshot`` option to False.

Reviewer 2: Avoid this _______? This update? This exclusion? Would it be clearer to say: “To keep listing these retrieved components in ``list_changes``, set the ``snapshot`` option to False.

Author: "If you do not want a new snapshot to be created after running the `retrieve_changes` task, configure the `snapshot` option to `False` in in your project's `cumulusci.yml` file."

By default, changes are retrieved into the ``src`` directory when using metadata source format, or the default ``sfdx`` package directory (``force-app``) when using ``sfdx`` source format.

To retrieve into a different location using the ``--path`` option:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run retrieve_changes --org dev --path your/unique/path

CumulusCI has multiple tasks for retrieving metadata from an org environment. See the comprehensive list of `retrieve changes`_ tasks in the cheat sheet.

Push Changes
------------

> Developers rarely edit code directly in an org environment, but instead use an editor or IDE like VSCode or IntelliJ. After code (or other metadata) in an editor, push these changes from your project's local repository to the target org.

Reviewer 2: "After code (or other metadata) in an editor, push these changes from your project's local repository to the target org."

I'm missing a verb here, and I couldn't intuit which one you'd prefer.

Author: "After making edits to code or other metadata in an editor..."

To require that the ``qa_org`` flow always runs this task, add a ``deploy_qa_config`` task step under the ``flows__qa_config`` section of the ``cumulusci.yml`` file.

.. code-block:: yaml

    qa_config:
        steps:
            3:
                task: deploy_qa_config

So now ``qa_config`` (which is included in the ``qa_org`` flow) executes the ``deploy_qa_config`` task as the third step in the flow.

Manage Dependencies
-------------------

CumulusCI is built to automate the complexities of dependency management for extension package projects. CumulusCI currently handles these main types of dependencies for projects:

* **Managed Packages**: Require a certain version of a managed package
* **Unmanaged Metadata**: Require the deployment of unmanaged metadata
* **GitHub Repository**: Dynamically include the dependencies of another CumulusCI configured project

The ``update_dependencies`` task handles deploying dependencies to a target org, and is included in all flows designed to deploy or install to an org. 

To run the ``update_dependencies`` task: 

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run update_dependencies

Managed Package Dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Managed package dependencies are rather simple. Under the ``project__dependencies`` section of the ``cumulusci.yml`` file, specify the namespace of the target package, and the required version number.

Reviewer 2: Original version was ``project``-->``dependencies``.  Just confirming that ``project__dependencies`` is correct.

Author: Correct

* If the project has a namespace and is not set for unmanaged, use the GitHub API to get the latest release and install it.
* If the project is an unmanaged dependency, the ``src`` or ``force-app`` directory is deployed.
* Determine if the project has subfolders under unpackaged/post. If found, deploys them next. Namespace tokens are replaced with ``namespace__`` or an empty string, depending on if the dependency is considered managed or unmanaged.

Reference Unmanaged Projects
****************************

If the referenced repository does not have a namespace configured, or if the dependency specifies the ``unmanaged`` option as ``True``, the repository is treated as an unmanaged repository.

    Example: Salesforce EDA

.. code-block:: yaml

    project:
        dependencies:
            - github: https://github.com/SalesforceFoundation/EDA
              unmanaged: True

..

    The EDA repository is configured for a namespace, but the dependency  specifies ``unmanaged: True``, so the dependency deploys unmanaged EDA and its dependencies.

Reference a Specific Tag
************************

> To reference a version other than HEAD and the latest production release, use the ``tag`` option to specify a tag from the target repository. This option is most useful for testing against beta versions of underlying packages, or recreating specific org environments for debugging.

Reviewer 2: HEAD?

Author: [HEAD](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2304087/what-is-head-in-git) is a concept in Git. I think it should be safe to assume that if a user is looking for information on this topic then they should be generally familiar with the term.

Skip ``unpackaged/*`` in Reference Repositories
***********************************************

If the repository you are referring to has dependency metadata under unpackaged/pre or unpackaged/post, use the ``skip`` option to skip deploying that metadata with the dependency.

    Example: Salesforce EDA

.. code-block:: yaml

    project:
        dependencies:
            - github: https://github.com/SalesforceFoundation/EDA
              skip: unpackaged/post/course_connection_record_types

Automatic Cleaning of ``meta.xml`` Files on Deploy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To let CumulusCI fully manage the project's dependencies, the ``deploy`` task (and other tasks based on ``cumulusci.tasks.salesforce.Deploy``, or subclasses of it) automatically removes the ``<packageVersion>`` element 
and its children from all ``meta.xml`` files in the deployed metadata. Removing these elements does not affect the files on the filesystem.

> The reason for stripping ``<packageVersion>`` elements on deploy is that the target Salesforce org automatically adds them back with the installed version of the referenced namespace. This feature lets CumulusCI fully manage dependencies, and avoids rushing a new commit of ``meta.xml`` files when a new underlying package version is available.

Reviewer 2: Am I correct in changing it to "this feature"?

Author: Works for me.

    * If the org has a newer version or a beta version installed, it's uninstalled and ``version 3.6`` is installed.

Hierarchical Dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Managed package dependencies can handle a hierarchy of dependencies between packages.

    Example: Salesforce.org's Nonprofit Success Pack (NPSP), an extension of five other managed packages, one of which (Households) is an extension of another (Contacts & Organizations).

    These dependencies are listed under the ``project`` section of the ``cumulusci.yml`` file.

.. code-block:: yaml

    project:
        dependencies:
            - namespace: npo02
              version: 3.8
              dependencies:
                  - namespace: npe01
                    version: 3.6
            - namespace: npe03
              version: 3.9
            - namespace: npe4
              version: 3.5
            - namespace: npe5
              version: 3.5

..

    The project requires ``npo02 version 3.8``, which itself requires ``npe01 version 3.6``. By specifying the dependency hierarchy, the ``update_dependencies`` task is capable of uninstalling and upgrading packages intelligently.

>     So if the target org currently has ``npe01 version 3.7``, ``npe01`` needs to be uninstalled to downgrade to ``3.6``. However, ``npo02`` requires ``npe01``, so uninstalling ``npe01`` also requires uninstalling ``npo02``. (In this scenario ``npe03``, ``npe04``, and ``npe05`` do not have to be uninstalled to uninstall ``npe01``.)

Reviewer 2: @Br4nd0R @davidmreed I changed the previous example (npo02/npe01) to the new one (Households/Contacts & Organizations), but now it doesn't match the rest of the commentary and code block? How do we go about fixing this? Update the information to match Household/C&O, or go back to what we had previously? 

(FYI, it was previously:

 "Example: Salesforce.org's Nonprofit Success Pack (NPSP), an extension of five other managed packages, one of which (npo02) is an extension of another (npe01).")

Author: can we add the namespace along with the product name above? This way users will be able to associate between product <--> namespace.

Unmanaged Metadata Dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Specify unmanaged metadata to be deployed by specifying a ``zip_url`` and, optionally, ``subfolder``, ``namespace_inject``, ``namespace_strip``, and ``unmanaged`` under the ``project__dependencies`` section of the cumulusci.yml file.

.. code-block:: yaml

    project:
        dependencies:
            - zip_url: https://SOME_HOST/metadata.zip

> When the ``update_dependencies`` task runs, it downloads the zip file and deploys it via the Metadata API's ``deploy`` method. The zip file must contain valid metadata for use with a deploy, including a ``package.xml`` file in the root.

Reviewer 2: Metadata API's ``deploy`` method

Deploy should be in backquotes, correct?

Reviewer 3: Probably, but even better, just delete after `Metadata API` to the end of the sentence.

* Look for the ``cumulusci.yml`` file and parse if found.
* Determine if the project has subfolders under ``unpackaged/pre``.  If found, deploy them first.
* Determine if the project specifies any dependencies in the ``cumulusci.yml`` file.  If found, recursively resolve those dependencies and any dependencies belonging to them.
* Determine whether to install the project as as a managed package or unmanaged metadata:
    * If the project has a namespace configured in the ``cumulusci.yml`` file, treat the project as a managed package unless the unmanaged option is ``True``.
    * If the project has a namespace and is *not* configured as unmanaged, use the GitHub API to locate the latest managed release of the project and install it.
* If the project is an unmanaged dependency, the ``src`` or ``force-app`` directory is deployed.
* Determine if the project has subfolders under ``unpackaged/post``. If found, deploy them next. Namespace tokens are replaced with ``namespace__`` if the project is being installed as a managed package, or an empty string otherwise.

Reference Unmanaged Projects
****************************

> If the referenced repository does not have a namespace configured, or if the dependency specifies the ``unmanaged`` option as ``True``, the repository is treated as an unmanaged repository.

Reviewer 2: @davidmreed @Br4nd0R: On line #446, we updated the text to read "unmanaged metadata". But on this line we have "unmanaged repository". What should we settle on?

Reviewer 3: Yeah, we should change this one.
```suggestion
If the referenced repository does not have a namespace configured, or if the dependency specifies the ``unmanaged`` option as ``True``, the repository is treated as unmanaged.
```

    Example: Salesforce EDA

.. code-block:: yaml

    project:
        dependencies:
            - github: https://github.com/SalesforceFoundation/EDA
              unmanaged: True

..

>     The EDA repository is configured for a namespace, but the dependency  specifies ``unmanaged: True``, so the dependency deploys unmanaged EDA and its dependencies.

Reviewer 2: Second half of this sentence is a bit confusing. Is there a better way to say it? 

“...So EDA and its dependencies deploy/are deployed as unmanaged”?

Author: "... so EDA and its dependencies deploy as unmanaged metadata."

    Example: Salesforce EDA

.. code-block:: yaml

    project:
        dependencies:
            - github: https://github.com/SalesforceFoundation/EDA
              skip: unpackaged/post/course_connection_record_types

Automatic Cleaning of ``meta.xml`` Files on Deploy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To let CumulusCI fully manage the project's dependencies, the ``deploy`` task (and other tasks based on ``cumulusci.tasks.salesforce.Deploy``, or subclasses of it) automatically removes the ``<packageVersion>`` element and its children from all ``meta.xml`` files in the deployed metadata. Removing these elements does not affect the files on the filesystem.

This feature supports CumulusCI's automatic dependency resolution by avoiding a need for projects to manually update XML files to reflect current dependency package versions.

.. note:: If the metadata being deployed references namespaced metadata that does not exist in the currently installed package, the deployment throws an error as expected.

> The automatic cleaning of ``meta.xml`` files can be disabled by setting the ``clean_meta_xml`` option to ``False``. Prior to the addition of this functionality, there were unnecessary delays in the CumulusCI release cycle due to the need to create a new commit on ``main`` (and thus a feature branch, PR, code review, and so on) just to update the ``meta.xml`` files. CumulusCI's GitHub dependency functionality already handles requiring a new production release, so the only reason to do this commit was for the ``meta.xml`` files. Automatically cleaning the meta.xml files on deploy eliminates the need for this commit.

Reviewer 2: "Prior to..."

This seems more like a helpful aside than an actual instruction. Thoughts? Should we put it in a note box? Leave as is?

Author: we can take the rest of the paragraph out. Make the first sentence a "tip" admonition.

One drawback of this approach is that developers need to handle the diffs in the ``meta.xml`` files by either ignoring them, or committing them as part of their work in a feature branch. 

    Example: The diffs come from a scenario of Package B, which extends Package A. When a new production release of Package A is published, the ``update_dependencies`` task for Package B installs the new version. When metadata is then retrieved from the org, the ``meta.xml`` files reference the new version while the repository's ``meta.xml`` files reference an older version.

>     The main difference between this situation and one where the ``meta.xml`` file is automatically cleaned is that avoiding the diffs in ``meta.xml`` files is a convenience for developers rather than a requirement for builds and releases. 

Reviewer 2: Upon second/third/fourth read, this sentence seems to get more and more confusing. What exactly is a diff?

Author: I'm adding this on something to revisit after the beta release (or potentially next week if I have time).

Author: But yes, this is very dense and not easy to comprehend.

Develop a Project
=================

A general overview on how to develop a Salesforce project with CumulusCI.

Set Up a Dev Org
----------------

The ``dev_org`` flow creates an org to develop on by moving all metadata (managed and unmanaged) into the org, and configuring it to be ready for development.

.. note:: Run ``cci flow info dev_org`` for a full list of the ``dev_org`` flow steps.

To run the ``dev_org`` flow against the project's `default org<TODO>`_:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci flow run dev_org

To explictly list the org ``<org_name>`` against the dev_org flow, use the ``--org`` option.

    Example: Run the ``dev_org`` flow against the org currently defined as ``dev`` in CumulusCI.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci flow run dev_org --org dev

..

    Open the new ``dev`` org to begin development.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci org browser dev

Set the Capture State
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> To make changes to capture in an org, use the ``snapshot_changes`` task to create a snapshot. A snapshot tells the Salesforce CLI source tracking to set the org's current state as a baseline for changes to be made against.

Reviewer 2: @Br4nd0R Mark this for discussion before we merge.

> To make changes to capture in an org, use the ``snapshot_changes`` task to create a snapshot. A snapshot tells the Salesforce CLI source tracking to set the org's current state as a baseline for changes to be made against.

Author: Now that David brings this up, I realize he's right, we shouldn't need to include content on this command. It made it here because it is currently included in the original doc set. I think this is a good candidate for content that needs not be carried over to the new docs.

It utilizes the `SourceMember <https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api_tooling.meta/api_tooling/tooling_api_objects_sourcemember.htm>`_
sObject to detect what has changed in an org, but also lets you be more selective regarding which components to retrieve when compared to the ``dx_pull`` task.

Manual tracking of component versions also offers the possibility of retrieving
some changes into one directory, and then running the task again to retrieve other changes into a different directory.
 
To capture all changes in an org:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run retrieve_changes --org dev

For more control over the changes you want to retrieve see the `List & Retrieve Options`_ section.

List & Retrieve Options 
-----------------------
When developing in an org, it is often the case that there are more than one
piece of metadata that you have modified and would potentially want to retrieve
back into your project's local repository on your machine. 

If is a general practice to use the ``list_changes`` command to narrow down exactly the elements
you want to retrieve (making use of the following options), then running ``retrieve_changes`` task

> once the correct set of metadata is listed.

Reviewer 2: It's a common workflow in CumulusCI to use the ``list_changes`` command, combined with the options featured in this subsection, to narrow the scope of changes in the org to the exact elements you desire to retrieve in your project. When the correct set of metadata is listed, run the ``retrieve_changes`` task to brings those changes into the repository.

CumulusCI offers several options for narrowing down the metadata you want to list/retrieve with surgical precision.

``--include`` & ``--exclude``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> When retrieving metadata from an org, CumulusCI processes the metadata in strings with the following format: ``MemberType: MemberName``

Reviewer 2: Perfect! You're HIRED!

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Out-of-the-box, the ``config_dev`` and ``config_qa`` flows are the same. Many teams have a requirement for additional configurations to be deployed when performing QA, but not when developing a new feature.

    Example: Salesforce.org teams often modify the ``config_qa`` flow to deploy configurations that pertain to large optional features in a package. These configurations are subsequently tested by the product's robot test suites.

To capture your own QA configurations, spin up a new org...

.. code-block::

    $ cci flow run qa_org

Make the necessary changes, and run:

.. code-block::

    $ cci task run retrieve_qa_config

This task defaults to capturing this metadata under ``unpackaged/config/qa``.

.. note:: The configuration metadata can also be stored in a different location by using the ``--path`` option.

..

To delete the org...

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci org remove qa

Then re-create it...

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci flow run qa_org --org qa

Then run the ``deploy_qa_config`` to deploy the previously captured configurations to the org.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run deploy_qa_config --org qa

> To require that the ``qa_org`` flow always runs this task, add a ``deploy_qa_config`` task step under the ``flows__qa_config`` section of the ``cumulusci.yml`` file.

Reviewer 2: It's discussed in an earlier section, but I can't remember just now where. @Br4nd0R, do you know?

> To require that the ``qa_org`` flow always runs this task, add a ``deploy_qa_config`` task step under the ``flows__qa_config`` section of the ``cumulusci.yml`` file.

Reviewer 2: Should we add a note to remind people what the ``__`` means? I use this syntax throughout later sections.

> To require that the ``qa_org`` flow always runs this task, add a ``deploy_qa_config`` task step under the ``flows__qa_config`` section of the ``cumulusci.yml`` file.

Reviewer 2: Got it. We use it again in this section -- line #295.

> To require that the ``qa_org`` flow always runs this task, add a ``deploy_qa_config`` task step under the ``flows__qa_config`` section of the ``cumulusci.yml`` file.

Author: Let's ignore for now. I'm going to see where we're using this syntax in all of the docs next week and potentially fix if necessary.

If the metadata you are deploying has been tokenized, use the ``namespace_inject`` and ``unmanaged`` options to inject the namespace.

    Example: ``namespace_inject: hed``

.. code-block:: yaml

    project:
        dependencies:
            - zip_url: https://github.com/SalesforceFoundation/EDA/archive/master.zip
              subfolder: EDA-master/dev_config/src/admin_config
              namespace_inject: hed

..

    The metadata in the zip contains the string tokens ``%%%NAMESPACE%%%`` and ``___NAMESPACE___`` which is replaced with ``hed__`` before the metadata is deployed.

To deploy tokenized metadata without any namespace references, specify both ``namespace_inject`` and ``unmanaged``.

    Example: ``namespace_inject: hed`` and ``unmanaged: True``

.. code-block:: yaml

    project:
        dependencies:
            - zip_url: https://github.com/SalesforceFoundation/EDA/archive/master.zip
              subfolder: EDA-master/dev_config/src/admin_config
              namespace_inject: hed
              unmanaged: True

..

    The namespace tokens are replaced with an empty string instead of the namespace, effectively stripping the tokens from the files and filenames.

> Strip Namespace Prefixes

Reviewer 2: @Br4nd0R This is covered in [Unpackaged Metadata](https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI/pull/2069/). 

How would you like to proceed?

> Strip Namespace Prefixes

Author: Let's leave this for now. I added todo items for myself to get to next week to re-incorporate this into "managing unpackaged metadata"

************************

If the metadata in the zip to be deployed has references to a namespace prefix, use the ``namespace_strip`` option to remove them.

    Example: ``namespace_strip: npsp``

.. code-block:: yaml

    project:
        dependencies:
            - zip_url: https://github.com/SalesforceFoundation/CumulusReports/archive/master.zip
              subfolder: CumulusReports-master/src
              namespace_strip: npsp

..

    When ``update_dependencies`` runs, the zip is retrieved and the string ``npsp__`` is stripped from all files and filenames in the zip before deployment.  This option is most useful when setting up an unmanaged development environment for an extension package that normally uses managed dependencies.
    
    This example takes the NPSP Reports & Dashboards project's unmanaged metadata and strips the references to ``npsp__`` to deploy it against an unmanaged version of NPSP.

> GitHub Repository Dependencies

Reviewer 2: Note to self: Make "GitHub Repository Dependencies" the first subsection of "Hierarchal Dependencies" section.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

GitHub repository dependencies create a dynamic dependency between the current project and another project on GitHub that uses CumulusCI to manage its dependencies.

    Example: Salesforce EDA

.. code-block:: yaml
 
    project:
        dependencies:
            - github: https://github.com/SalesforceFoundation/EDA

When ``update_dependencies`` runs, these steps are taken against the referenced repository.

* Look for the ``cumulusci.yml`` file and parse if found.
* Determine if the project has subfolders under unpackaged/pre.  If found, deploys them first.
* Determine if the project specifies any dependencies in the ``cumulusci.yml`` file.  If found, deploys them next in the queue.
* Determine if the project has a namespace configured in the ``cumulusci.yml`` file. If found, treats the project as a managed package unless the unmanaged option is also ``True``.

> * If the project has a namespace and is not set for unmanaged, use the GitHub API to get the latest release and install it.

Reviewer 3: This step and the above step could be unified for clarity. We could say "Determine whether to install the project as as a managed package or unmanaged metadata", then add sub-bullets to depict the logic.

* If the project is an unmanaged dependency, the ``src`` or ``force-app`` directory is deployed.

> * Determine if the project has subfolders under unpackaged/post. If found, deploys them next. Namespace tokens are replaced with ``namespace__`` or an empty string, depending on if the dependency is considered managed or unmanaged.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Determine if the project has subfolders under ``unpackaged/post``. If found, deploy them next. Namespace tokens are replaced with ``namespace__`` if the project is being installed as a managed package, or an empty string otherwise.
```

Reference Unmanaged Projects
****************************

If the referenced repository does not have a namespace configured, or if the dependency specifies the ``unmanaged`` option as ``True``, the repository is treated as an unmanaged repository.

    Example: Salesforce EDA

.. code-block:: yaml

    project:
        dependencies:
            - github: https://github.com/SalesforceFoundation/EDA
              unmanaged: True

..

    The EDA repository is configured for a namespace, but the dependency  specifies ``unmanaged: True``, so the dependency deploys unmanaged EDA and its dependencies.

Reference a Specific Tag
************************

> To reference a version other than HEAD and the latest production release, use the ``tag`` option to specify a tag from the target repository. This option is most useful for testing against beta versions of underlying packages, or recreating specific org environments for debugging.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To reference a specific version of the product other than the most recent commit on the main branch (for unmanaged projects) or the most recent production release (for managed package), use the ``tag`` option to specify a tag from the target repository. This option is most useful for testing against beta versions of underlying packages, or recreating specific org environments for debugging.
```

    Example: Salesforce EDA

.. code-block:: yaml

    project:
        dependencies:
            - github: https://github.com/SalesforceFoundation/EDA
              tag: beta/1.47-Beta_2

..

>     The EDA repository's tag, ``beta/1.47-Beta_2``, is used instead of the latest production release of EDA (1.46, for this example). This tag lets a build environment use features in the next production release of EDA that are already merged but not yet included in a production release.

Reviewer 3: We could also note the `include_beta` flag here, to avoid pinning a specific version, which is a fairly rare use case.

Reviewer 2: @Br4nd0R @davidmreed: Also, isn’t the example already outdated -- or will be -- when we talk about latest production releases ("1.46, for this example")?

Author: This shouldn't matter.

Skip ``unpackaged/*`` in Reference Repositories
***********************************************

If the repository you are referring to has dependency metadata under unpackaged/pre or unpackaged/post, use the ``skip`` option to skip deploying that metadata with the dependency.

    Example: Salesforce EDA

.. code-block:: yaml

    project:
        dependencies:
            - github: https://github.com/SalesforceFoundation/EDA

>               skip: unpackaged/post/course_connection_record_types

Reviewer 3: TIL!

Reviewer 2: Pardon?

Reviewer 3: I didn't know this was supported - "today I learned" you can do this.

Automatic Cleaning of ``meta.xml`` Files on Deploy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> To let CumulusCI fully manage the project's dependencies, the ``deploy`` task (and other tasks based on ``cumulusci.tasks.salesforce.Deploy``, or subclasses of it) automatically removes the ``<packageVersion>`` and its children from all ``meta.xml`` files in the deployed metadata. Removing these elements does not affect the files on the filesystem.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To let CumulusCI fully manage the project's dependencies, the ``deploy`` task (and other tasks based on ``cumulusci.tasks.salesforce.Deploy``, or subclasses of it) automatically removes the ``<packageVersion>`` element and its children from all ``meta.xml`` files in the deployed metadata. Removing these elements does not affect the files on the filesystem.
```

> The reason for stripping ``<packageVersion>`` elements on deploy is that the target Salesforce org automatically adds them back with the installed version of the referenced namespace. This feature lets CumulusCI fully manage dependencies, and avoids rushing a new commit of ``meta.xml`` files when a new underlying package version is available.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This feature supports CumulusCI's automatic dependency resolution by avoiding a need for projects to manually update XML files to reflect current dependency package versions.
```

.. note:: If the metadata being deployed references namespaced metadata that does not exist in the currently installed package, the deployment throws an error as expected.

> The automatic cleaning of ``meta.xml`` files can be disabled by setting the ``clean_meta_xml`` task option to ``False``. Prior to the addition of this functionality, there were unnecessary delays in the CumulusCI release cycle due to the need to create a new commit on ``main`` (and thus a feature branch, PR, code review, and so on) just to update the ``meta.xml`` files. CumulusCI's GitHub dependency functionality already handles requiring a new production release, so the only reason to do this commit was for the ``meta.xml`` files. Automatically cleaning the meta.xml files on deploy eliminates the need for this commit.

Reviewer 3: I think we're going into too much depth and detail here. This feature should be made known to users, but it's almost always behind the scenes.

    Example: The diffs come from a scenario of Package B, which extends Package A. When a new production release of Package A is published, the ``update_dependencies`` task for Package B installs the new version. When metadata is then retrieved from the org, the ``meta.xml`` files reference the new version while the repository's ``meta.xml`` files reference an older version.

    The main difference between this situation and one where the ``meta.xml`` file is automatically cleaned is that avoiding the diffs in ``meta.xml`` files is a convenience for developers rather than a requirement for builds and releases. 
    
Developers can also use the ``meta_xml_dependencies`` task to update the ``meta.xml`` files locally using the versions from CumulusCI's calculated project dependencies.

Use Tasks and Flows from a Different Project
--------------------------------------------

Dependency handling is used in a very specific context: to install dependency packages or metadata bundles in a ``dependencies`` flow that is a component of some other flows.

> Common use cases for using tasks and flows from another CumulusCI project:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
CumulusCI also makes it possible to use automation (tasks and flows) from another CumulusCI project. This feature supports many use cases, including:
```

> * Setting up a dependency to include configuration, rather than just installing the package.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Applying configuration from a dependency project, rather than just installing the package.
```

> * Running robot tests that are defined in a dependency.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Running Robot Framework tests that are defined in a dependency.
```

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run snapshot_changes --org dev

.. note:: There's no need to run ``snapshot_changes`` if you've set up a scratch org with any of these flows.

    * ``dev_org``
    * ``dev_org_namespaced``
    * ``qa_org``
    * ``regression_org``
    * ``install_beta``
    * ``install_prod``
    
    These flows all run ``snapshot_changes`` as their last step.

The ``list_changes`` and ``retrieve_changes`` tasks detect new or modified metadata in an org, but ignore any changes to metadata made prior to the last snapshot.

A snapshot is created successfully when the final line of output for ``list_changes`` and ``retrieve_changes`` reads "Found no changes."

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run list_changes --org dev

    YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS: Getting org info from Salesforce CLI for <username>
    YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS: Beginning task: ListChanges
    YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS: As user: <username>
    YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS: In org: <org_name>
    YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS:

>     YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS: Found no changes.

Reviewer 2: Would it be better to post a screenshot of what this actually looks like?

For more information, see `List and Retrieve Options`_.

Retrieve Changes
----------------

The ``retrieve_changes`` task supports both Salesforce DX- and Metadata API-format source code. It utilizes the `SourceMember <https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api_tooling.meta/api_tooling/tooling_api_objects_sourcemember.htm>`_
``sObject`` to detect what has changed in an org, and also gives you discretion regarding which components are retrieved when compared to the ``dx_pull`` task.

Manual tracking of component versions also offers the possibility of retrieving changes into one directory, and then running the task again to retrieve other changes into a different directory.
 
To retrieve all changes in an org:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run retrieve_changes --org dev

For more information, see `List and Retrieve Options`_.

List and Retrieve Options 
-------------------------

When developing in an org, the changes you're most interested in are sometimes mixed with other changes that aren't relevant to what you're doing.

>     Example: Changing schema like ``Custom Objects`` and ``Custom Fields`` often results in changes to ``Page Layouts`` and ``Profiles`` that you don't wish to review or retrieve.

Reviewer 2: Added backquotes to these objects. Is this correct?

Reviewer 3: I think here we can omit them - we're referring to their user-facing labels rather than their underlying API names.
